show file content:
1. cat

Cat(concatenate) command is very frequently used in Linux. 
It reads data from the file and gives their content as output. 
It helps us to create, view, concatenate files. 
So let us see some frequently used cat commands.

To write file: cat>filename
	Write some text and pre ctrl+d to save

To view file content: cat filename

2. tail

tail returns the last n (default is 10) lines of each file 
that it is given.

syntax: tail [-2] filename

3. head

tail returns the top n (default is 10) lines of each file 
that it is given.

syntax: head [-2] filename

4. tac

tac command in Linux is used to concatenate and print files in reverse.

syntax: tac filename

5. less

less command allows you to view the contents of a file and navigate through file.
less command is faster because it does not load the entire file at once and allows 
navigation though file using page up/down keys.

syntax: less filename

6. more

more command is used to view the text files in the command prompt, 
displaying one screen at a time in case the file is large

syntax: more filename

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

filter file content:

1. sort

SORT command in Linux/Unix with examples. SORT command sorts the contents of a text file, line by line. 
sort is a standard command line program that prints the lines of its input or 
concatenation of all files listed in its argument list in sorted order.

syntax: sort filename

2. cat filename.txt | grep keyword

Search the given keyword in file

3. wc -lwc filename

counts the words, lines and characters in the given file

4. uniq -c filename

The uniq command in Linux is a command line utility that reports or filters out the repeated lines in a file.

5. cut

cut command in Linux with examples - GeeksforGeekswww.geeksforgeeks.org › cut-command-linux-examples
The cut command in UNIX is a command for cutting out the sections from each line of files and writing the result to standard output.

syntax: cut -d <delimeter> -f <column> filename


6. comm

compare given sorted files.

syntax: comm filename1 filename2